Previously on Dexter...
l was working on my piece
with the blowtorch,
and it just caught fire, l was so scared.
We could always get in the car
and pass the time like we used to.
You're giving Doakes to the press?
He is not your man.
Your credibility was compromised
when you failed to report a phone call
from the subject
of a goddamn FBl manhunt.
Who joined who
in the shower this morning?
How about. in the future.
l set the alarm ten minutes earlier?
The future, l'm liking the sound of that.
A woman named Lila Tournay has filed
sexual-assault charges against him.
That fucking bitch.
l could lose everything over this.
Lila, why can't you just let me go?
Because l'm your real soul mate.
Not Rita.
Jesus fucking Christ,
you're the Bay Harbor Butcher.
l really hate that name.
What's it gonna be, Morgan?
Kill me now or set me free!
Don't worry, l'll send the FBl
your way soon enough.
You're still gonna try to frame me?
Mission accomplished.
One more naiI in Doakes' coffin.
- We got him.
- So you have a tip, not Doakes?
Our target was headed
into the Everglades.
We will have the son of a bitch
in handcuffs in 24 hours.
Do not ever go to Rita's house again.
Stay away from Rita.
Stay away from me.
Whether you leave on your own
or immigration hauls your sorry ass away,
l don't give a shit.
But l don't want to give you one more day
to fuck with the people l care about.
Previous destinations...
- They found Doakes' fucking rental car.
- Did they find Doakes?
No, not yet.
But the search grid's closing in.
Hey!
Who's out there?
Anybody out there?
You have arrived at your destination.
Somebody in there?
Hello? Who's out there?
l need some help!
Get me out of here!
Who are you?
Just open the door!
l'm being held captive.
Leave the mess for once.
Walk away from the mess.
You know l can't do that.
Lundy's mobilizing every agency
in five counties. We're closing in.
You have a rental car.
you don't have Doakes.
God, come on.
l'm only helpful if there's blood.
Maybe we'll shoot him.
Then you'll need a paramedic, not me.
Are you afraid to face Doakes?
Yes, of course l'm afraid to face him.
And l have dishes to do.
Fine, l'll let you know when it's over.
lt's Doakes. You fucking hate the guy.
l used to.
l can't even afford to think of him
as a person any more.
Would you get going?
l tried.
lf they find Doakes in a cage,
it will seriously undermine my frame job.
I need to beat them to that cabin.
Waiting out there in the Everglades
are hordes of county sheriffs,
search parties, and ravenous reptiles.
And in this corner, wearing dark trunks,
the mighty Dexter.
Drive much?
I need a miracIe.
There's a switch,
right behind you on the wall.
God damn, it's good
to see another face.
l never thought l would.
l'm Sergeant James Doakes,
Miami Metro Homicide.
Who put you in there?
A fucking psycho.
And he could be back any minute.
Grab that key
right behind you on the wall.
Who is he?
His name is Dexter Morgan.
l need you to open this gate.
Why would he do that,
put you in there?
Because l found out he's
the Bay Harbor Butcher.
Please, just open this fucking gate!
He's. . .the B. . . Butcher?
That's what l've been trying to tell you.
What's in there?
Exactly what you think it is.
lt's evidence, and l saw it happen.
l really need to get out of this cage, lady.
Poor thing, all alone.
l'm OK. Just open the gate.
Not you, Dexter.
Hiding such an enormous secret.
What a burden that's got to be.
No wonder he is so shut down.
What are you, his accomplice?
l'm his soul mate.
You can't leave me in here like this.
You'll be an accessory.
l'm not gonna leave you. . .
not like that.
What the fuck are you doing?
No! Turn that off!
No! Do you understand? This is murder!
Open this fucking door!
This is fucking murder!
Hey. Dexter Morgan.
Miami Metro PD Forensics.
l'm here to join the search
for the Bay Harbor Butcher.
The search is on hold right now
until they sort out the confusion.
Confusion, huh?
Yeah. lt's a real mess.
Take a right at the fork.
Park outside the line of fire trucks.
Confusion requires fire trucks?
When something beyond reason happens,
it turns skeptics into believers -
believers in a higher power.
But what kind of power did this?
How the hell did you get here so fast?
l just got here in a helicopter with Lundy.
l broke a lot of speed limits.
After you left, l realized you were right.
l didn't want to miss the action.
What happened?
They think a propane tank exploded.
How?
Do l look like a fucking fire chief?
Did they find a body?
Just bits and pieces so far.
Was it spontaneous combustion?
Divine intervention?
lf you believe that God makes miracles,
you have to wonder if Satan
has a few up his sleeve.
But when you don't believe in anything,
who do you thank at a time like this?
We got a floater!
We got lift-off and separation. . .
Gaping areas of. . .
pulpified tissue. . .
extensive fourth-degree burns.
Big-ass fucking explosion.
What else can you give us?
These linear lines
around his eyes are unburned.
He was squinting,
alive when it happened.
What else?
Teeth are intact.
Dental records should give us a positive lD.
God damn it, Masuka. ls it Doakes?
Male, African-American,
about the right length torso. . .
heavily muscled.
l think it's him.
These are the same kind of tools
that scuba-dive class found.
He'd need them
to make cuts that clean.
Those come from the suspect?
No, they belong to a second body.
And whoever he was, he was. . .
dead and dismembered
before the explosion.
So this is where the Butcher
did his dirty work.
lt's a perfect location for a kill room.
lt doesn't get any more remote than this.
No, it couldn't.
This is good news, gentlemen.
And lady.
Right.
All right, we keep the search on
till we get a firm lD
on that body in the water.
You agree with them?
The evidence is compelling.
Overwhelming, actually.
l guess we got our man.
Oh, shit. LaGuerta's here.
Lieutenant. . .
l wouldn't if l were you.
ls it James?
They don't know yet.
Apparently miracles are subjective.
l can't exactly feel LaGuerta's pain
but l can appreciate it.
Doakes wasn't so bad in the end.
But the truly tragic thing
would be to let his sacrifice go to waste.
There's only one way
I can think of to honor him.
l have to embrace my freedom.
SIeep. What a concept.
l can"t believe l actually
contemplated turning myself in.
This is so much better than a prison cell.
l can squeeze fresh orange juice...
Savor a fine French roast...
grab a morning workout.
OK, working out l could have
done in prison, but still...
I'm free.
- Dexter?
- sorry.
Hope l didn't scare you.
What are you doing out there?
Well, l figured the kids were still asleep.
l didn't want to ring the bell.
Why are you here?
Well, l figured the kids were still asleep.
That was. . .
unexpected.
Yeah, l wound up with some
unexpected time on my hands.
Like 20 years to life.
l don't know if this is a good idea, Dexter.
l was just getting used to you
from a distance.
l know. You've been like a mirage.
l've been right here.
You're the one that went away.
Yeah, l did.
l kind of forgot who l was.
l got it straight now.
Well, keep it straight,
or l won't be here next time.
l know that.
Mom!
lt's the sex police.
How come you're still in bed?
l overslept.
Will you make us pancakes, please?
What's under there?
- Hi.
- Hi, Dexter.
Are you guys back together?
l guess we are.
Over, under, over, under.
- Maybe l should do it myself.
- No. l want to do it.
We're gonna be late.
So what? The case is closing.
l know. We still need confirmation
on Doakes' body.
And if it's him?
Then it's over.
The case, not us, right?
We still have the wrap-up to do -
cataloguing. confirming.
filing, more filing.
So we've got time?
Plenty.
Time enough for a vacation?
Now you're talking.
Toes in the sand, tequila. . .
little, teeny bikini.
How about a parka?
A what?
l've had my fill of heat,
no more heat.
You'd look great in a parka.
Ever heard of Lake lpperwash?
Can't say that l have.
Wonderful ice fishing, very romantic.
Fine, book it.
Let's just go.
- Morning, Dex.
- Doughnut?
l'm not really feeling like doughnuts.
Know what l mean?
No.
Oh, right.
Mmm, doughnuts.
Hey, are you free?
- Oh, Vince, you have no idea.
- Good.
l got a dozen boxes of burnt-up shit
from the cabin need cataloguing.
Come on.
- Lieutenant.
- Special Agent Lundy,
l was just looking more closely
at the dates of James'
special forces missions, and. . .
We have a positive lD on the body.
And there may be an additional date,
which puts him out of the country...
The burn victim is Sergeant Doakes.
Dental records confirmed it.
And the other body?
Jose Garza, a murder fugitive,
who's been living
under the alias Chris Harlow.
The body was dismembered,
consistent with our other victims.
Deputy Director Adams is closing the case.
l see.
Lieutenant. . .
all the evidence
points to James Doakes
as the Bay Harbor Butcher. . .
conclusively.
l wanted you to hear it from me first.
- Thank you.
- l'm truly sorry.
l don't know why they keep
hauling crap from the cabin in here.
We already know
what we need to know.
Doakes was a suicidal maniac.
l believe the term is homicidal maniac,
Not that l'm judging.
Yeah, whatever, Morgan.
He blew himself up.
That's all l'm saying.
l thought l heard somebody say
it was a propane accident.
Right. Doakes accidentally
turned on the propane valve,
and then he accidentally
turned the stove on.
The stove was on?
lt was in the official
fire investigator's report this morning.
l mean, l guess it could be
that Doakes didn't realize
fire and gas are a bad combo,
but my money's on suicide.
A badass like Doakes
would rather burn than get burned.
That's a good line for my movie.
l better write it down.
You're writing a movie about Doakes?
Like you're not.
He'd rather burn than get burned.
l just checked.
l didn't see any GPS device
in the minivan. Dexter.
Did you check the glove box?
lt's grey, rectangular.
lt's about the size
of a paperback book.
No. it wasn't there.
l even looked under the seats.
Do you think someone stole it?
Maybe.
Thanks, Rita. l'll see you tonight.
lf someone stole my GPS,
it would have led them straight to Doakes.
Who do I know with
a nasty habit of stealing?
LiIa...
my miracle worker.
lt looks peaceful in there.
Doesn't it?
l'm glad you called.
l was afraid maybe you'd left town.
lt seems l found a good reason to stay.
Like what?
A new victim?
You mean you?
That's why you asked
to meet at the aquarium,
in a public place?
You thought l was gonna. . .
What, slip my needle into your neck?
ls that how you do it?
lt's one of the ways.
You're afraid of me now, aren't you?
l've always been afraid of you, Dexter.
Why?
From the first time l saw you,
l could see how hopelessly
consumed you were by your need.
You lied to me.
All that time as my sponsor,
you said all you wanted
was to help me control my addiction.
We did control it.
But that's not what you really wanted. . .
was it?
What do you think l wanted?
To know what it's like
to feel something. . .that deeply. . .
Anything. That's why you
hang out in recovery groups.
You're emotionally color-blind.
You use the right words,
you pantomime the right behavior,
but the feelings never come to pass.
That's not true.
lt is, Lila.
You know the dictionary
definition of emotions -
longing, joy. sorrow -
but you have no idea
what any of those things actually feel like.
You're wrong. l have feelings for you.
You want to have feelings for me
but they're just impulses.
- Enough.
- They're primitive responses
- to immediate needs.
- stop it.
You know all the words,
but you can't hear the music.
- Don't do this here.
- Lila. . .
l'm just like you.
Hey!
l was down to my last hope.
So was l.
When he told me who you are,
l thought that was
a secret worth protecting.
Most definitely.
l wish you could have seen it, Dexter.
The explosion was. . .
brilliant.
l'm more like my father
than l ever imagined.
l've created a monster of my own.
Told you.
We were meant to be together.
Lila, l'm sorry l pushed you away.
l know how frightening
it must have been for you,
me scratching to get in.
But it's OK.
l'm in now,
and l'm not going anywhere.
l am.
Even with Doakes gone,
l'm starting to think
it's too dangerous for me here.
l need to move on, disappear.
l've already said my goodbyes.
Let me come with you.
l was hoping you'd say that.
How long would it take you to get ready?
To close my accounts. . .
shut up my business. . .
Tomorrow afternoon.
Go home and pack.
l'll call you tomorrow.
l can't wait to go away with you, Dexter.
l can't wait.
You're going away with me, all right...
in a garbage bag.
But it went all right?
Sure, for an internal affairs investigation.
l spent two hours saying,
"No, l did not rape Lila Tournay.
"She's bat-shit, nuts, wacko."
l started to run out of adjectives.
Well, l got a few you can use.
The good news is the department
is dying to drop the charge.
They're dodging enough bullets
with this Doakes thing.
Good - so when they find out
your so-called victim fled Miami,
you'll be reinstated.
- Lila went away?
- She fucking better.
l dropped by her house and told her
to haul her slag ass out of town
before she's deported.
- You did that for me?
- Of course.
For you and for Dex.
You two window-lickers needed
somebody to snap you out of it.
lt's good to know somebody's
pulling for you when you're down.
OK, l get the point.
Are you sure Lila got the message?
Yeah, totally.
l mean, l made it pretty clear.
Excuse me.
- Donations can be made directly to me.
- Donations?
For Sergeant Doakes' memorial service.
You got to be kidding?
lt's what we do for a fellow officer.
Thanks again, Morgan.
Yeah.
Excuse me, Lieutenant.
l. . .was wondering. . .
Checks payable to cash.
Actually l just wanted
to offer my support...
sympathy or. . .
whatever the fuck, if you want to talk. . .
Thank you, Morgan. l can manage.
l'm not so sure, l mean. . .
you're collecting money
to honor a killer.
l'm not honoring the Butcher.
l'm honoring James Doakes.
Respectfully, Maria, that's denial.
So it is.
You're choosing to be in denial?
Conscious denial.
But the case is closed.
l'm not gonna pursue it.
But l knew James.
l knew him.
As a partner and as a friend.
l have to keep on believing
that that is who he was.
because if he could hide
all that other fucked-up shit,
then l don't think l could ever. . .
Trust anyone again.
That's right.
Or yourself?
l'll leave a check in your office.
lt's strange to have a creation out there.
A deeply mutated version of yourself
running loose and screwing everything up.
I wonder if this is how parents feeI.
Lila?
What the fuck?
Dexter?
What are you doing here?
l came to make sure Lila left town.
Yeah, me too.
And if she was still here, you were
gonna what, wrestle her out? Jesus!
What have we here?
The door was open.
l just stepped out to buy
some snacks for the road trip.
Come to say goodbye?
Actually, we came to see
that you cleared out.
But now that we see
you're on your way.
we're good to go.
Have a nice fucking life.
- You're not coming with me, then?
- Oh, my God.
What did you do to make her
so pathetically crazy for you?
Does your dick dance?
Oh, well, OK.
l better be on my way, then.
l think that's my bag.
l must have left it last time l was here.
No, l'm pretty sure it's mine.
l can open it up for you if you like,
so you can check for yourself.
No, it's my mistake. . .
OK.
Well. . .
Bye, then.
Have a nice flight.
Don't forget your broom.
HeIIo, this is LiIa.
Please leave your name and number,
and l will ring you back as soon as l can.
Lila. where are you?
l'm ready to hit the road.
Hope you're not mad about Deb. l had to lie.
l don't want her to know
we're running off together.
Call me right away.
l miss you.
What?
Frank!
Bedroom.
"What are we doing home
in the middle of the day?"
She asked, hoping for sex.
You're packing already.
Good thing l got my tuque.
Lake lpperwash or bust.
- Debra, slow down.
- Oh, wait. l got a parka.
Do you know how hard it is
to find a parka in Miami?
When do we leave?
Not we. Me.
Debra, l just got a call from DC.
A pattern of bodies
was identified in Oregon.
My flight leaves tonight at seven.
You got to be fucking kidding me.
l wish l were.
But it's too soon.
l mean. . .if you're leaving,
we got to work out logistics.
Logistics?
Yeah, we got a lot of shit to figure out.
Weekend visits and red-eye flights
and frequent-flyer plans.
Let me get my calendar.
Hey.
Do you honestly want
to go down this path?
You're right. l don't.
Long-distance relationships
never work out,
not even in the movies.
Fuck it.
What are you doing?
Logistics.
l'm taking a leave of absence.
You're not thinking this through.
What's to think about?
l'm going with you.
lt's just a job.
lt's more than that to you.
OK, l love my job,
but not as much as l love. . .
being with you.
Just. . .do me a favor.
Take the afternoon and think about this.
Fine.
You do me a favor and buy me
a goddamn ticket on your flight.
l'm going home to pack.
and l'll see you at the airport.
That was delicious.
What did you like better.
the nature stew or the mud pudding?
l want worms on toast.
Can we have worms on toast
for a snack?
Go wash up, both of you.
Hey, no running in the house, please.
Yeah, real mature.
Captain, you called for me?
Oh, hey, Dexter.
Yeah, l received a phone call
from a woman that says
she's a friend of yours.
- Who?
- She wouldn't give her name
but claims to have vital information
on the Bay Harbor Butcher.
- Any idea who she might be?
- English accent?
- That's her.
- l think...
she might have
a personal issue with me.
This is the same woman
who tried to railroad Batista.
You might want to avoid her.
Not a chance.
No, this case is closing,
and l can't afford to leave any loose ends.
- Did she say she was coming in?
- Within the hour.
And you said she mentioned my name?
Specifically.
Well. stick around.
We'll sort this thing out together, OK?
lf Lila plans to turn me in, why would she
drop my name to the Captain
and give me a chance to intercept her?
It doesn't make sense...
UnIess she wants me here
so she can hurt me some other way.
Rita.
Astor?
Cody?
Guys?
Lexi.
Lexi! Where are the kids?
l can't remember.
Dexter, l got your message.
What is it? What's going on?
The kids are missing.
Miss Bennett, l am so sorry.
l didn't mean to fall asleep.
We have to call the police.
Call Deb. she'll have
the entire force looking for them.
See if any neighbors saw anything.
l'll drive around the area.
l promise we'll find them.
We're going to terminal seven,
Miami lnternational.
Morgan.
Debra, it's Rita.
Hey, l'm just. . . l'm getting in a cab.
Look, Cody and Astor are missing.
Did you call the police?
Dexter said to call you.
OK, you just sit by the phone.
l'll take it from here.
All right.
Hey, hold up. Could you just wait?
You don't want to go to the airport?
Course l want to go to the airport.
Wait. l just said wait.
For Christ's sake, honey,
make up your mind.
Why?
Why do l have to make up my mind?
God damn it!
Here.
Hi, Dexter.
- Hi, Dexter.
- Hey. Dex.
Hey, guys. You having fun?
- Super fun. Lila's so nice.
- Where is Lila?
l'm over here.
You could have had it all, Dexter.
Dexter!
Stay on the bed, guys! Don't move!
Look away, both of you.
OK, Astor, you first.
You're gonna help your brother.
Go. Run. Find help.
- Come on, Dexter!
- l can't fit.
Shit.
What do you remember from before -
you know, before we took you in?
Nothing.
Good. . .
because what happened was too strong.
Son, it got into you too early. . .
and it's gonna stay there.
lt's gonna make you want to kill,
and you won't be able to stop it.
So, l'm going to be like this forever?
Yes.
You're gonna be OK. l got you.
Number 1 265 to Paris
now boarding at gate 5A.
Arriving passengers,
baggage claim is at ground level.
l'm so sorry about all of this.
lt's over now.
They're safe. You're safe.
That's all that matters.
Come on.
You two, secure a perimeter,
and have the fire chief see me
as soon as he gets here, OK?
Put out an APB on Lila West,
AKA Lila Tournay.
suspected arsonist -
Five-seven, black hair,
pale like a fucking corpse.
"Fucking corpse." Got it.
You're wasting your time.
She's not coming back, not after this.
- Yeah, l wouldn't bet on it.
- No, she won't.
She's a survivalist.
How'd you know the kids were here?
A neighbor saw them
with a strange woman.
lt wasn't much of a leap.
Lila's gone after everyone
that's close to you.
What?
lt's pretty impressive.
lt seems it wasn't too long ago
l was taking care of you.
l like it better this way.
Yeah, l can see that.
Why is this man not on the way
to the hospital now?
l'm fine, Deb.
You're not fine.
Your eyebrows are singed.
How can you be so fucking relaxed?
l'm good at compartmentalization.
You're a little weird, Dex.
That's not gonna change.
l'm gonna be this way forever.
l can live with that.
Just smarten up, OK?
l passed through the flames
and rose from the ashes...
l've never been one to put much weight
into the idea of a higher power
but if I didn't know better,
I'd have to beIieve some force
wants me to keep doing what l'm doing.
Dexter.
You wanted to be close to me, Lila?
This is the most l have to offer.
l can't feel my. . .
my legs and my body.
Good.
l went with a spinal epidural
instead of the tranquillizer.
l've got a plane to catch,
And you don't need to feel this.
You killed an innocent man.
l did it for you, l did. . .
Did you try to kill
the children for me, too?
Don't do this.
You taught me to accept what l am. . .
and to trust in the one thing l know
with absolute clarity.
Thank you.
Not long ago l had a dream
that peopIe couId see me for what I am,
and for a brief instant in time,
the world actually saw my bodies of work.
Some even cheered.
But as it turns out,
nobody mourns the wicked.
Sorry, James.
l think Harry knew that from the start.
That's why he gave me a code.
It cost him his Iife, but it kept me aIive
through incredible trials.
The code is mine now and mine aIone.
So, too, are the reIationships I cuItivate.
They're not just disguises any more.
I need them...
Even if they make me vulnerable.
My father might not approve,
but l'm no longer his disciple.
I'm a master now...
an idea transcended into Iife.
And so this is my new path,
which is a Iot Iike the oId one...
only mine.
To stay on that path, l need to work harder,
explore new rituals, evolve.
Am I eviI?
Am l good?
l'm done asking those questions.
I don't have the answers.
Does anyone?